# Go-Safe
A contagious disease is a type of disease that spreads from one person to another, either by physical contact or through the spread of pathogens in the air. On a daily basis, one person comes in contact with so many others, some of which might have been exposed to deadly pathogens like COVID-19. For health authorities and concerned authorities, it's a real challenge to keep an account of those individuals who might have been exposed to someone who has been tested positive for the COVID-19 virus. Automated contact tracing aimed to solve this problem. In this project, we will develop an Automated contact tracing App named Go Safe and relevant Dashboards that can be integrated into the current emergency response services of the government.

	•	Background
During the Covid19 pandemic, the world has gone under lockdown, forcing people into their homes and preventing all sorts of outdoor activities. Although such measures were difficult to undertake, governments were under a lot of stress to minimize people's gatherings to avoid the high risk of spreading infectious diseases. In this era of technology, tech enthusiasts started working on a solution that could help reduce the spread of the Covid19. One of the techniques used by many countries, and implemented by some, is the use of BLE and GPS to enable applications that perform contact tracing. These applications collect records of users, which are tested positive for the virus. After collecting data of infected users, it sends a warning to all the contacts, and those who get the message will presumably isolate themselves or ask to be tested. In a short time, contact tracing apps have successfully made many users. Even tech giants like google and apple have come at the forefront to lead by producing APIs to support developers. The European Union raised privacy concerns as the popularity of this technology started getting millions of users. Generally, the public has been a little nervous about privacy issues, which are of significant importance. However, the first-ever mass-scale use of a contact tracing app has been noticed in democratic states. As a result, we're working on a contact tracing software for Android , as well as a government dashboard. Through the low energy Bluetooth sensor of your smartphone, we can calculate the distance and time of a person in contact with others. Using data from our contact tracing service, government health authorities may respond with an effective micro level lockdown.

	•	Motivations and Challenges 
Contact tracing app is believed to be an essential tool in the health sector for controlling the spread of infectious disease. It is on record that more than 50 countries have succeeded in implementing this technology. In a country like China, the use of this application is mandatory, and even some democratic countries including Singapore, Vietnam and Indonesia have directed their citizens to download this app. However, in a country like Pakistan where the trust deficit is very high, convincing people to use this app would be a real challenge. Pakistani citizens are very skeptical when it comes to the involvement of the government in their lives as well as their data sharing might also be a big issue for them. So, the main challenge we expect is how to make people believe that their data wouldn't be shared with the government. As only a mobile number will be required for registering in the app, and that also will be encrypted for privacy concerns. Role of government will be limited to dashboard. The desktop application is expected to be used in government health authorities that are meant to work for support of patients.
We are driven by our mission which is to help our community by developing solutions that can help save them from a deadly virus. With the help of contact tracing, we want to stop the spread of disease through rapid identification. It may also be beneficial for those patients that are at a higher risk of developing severe infections if such patients know early that they have been exposed to the virus they can go for isolations, and further can get treated. Our motivation is that we are not collecting any personal information. In our app no GPS tracking. The phone no is stored in an encrypted format and Revealed to health authorities only once a person is contacted by a positive patient. Use a phone number for further communication with health authorities.

	•	Goals and Objectives
	•	Developing Contact Tracing Mobile Application for Android with Bluetooth Technology.
	•	Developing a dashboard for government health authorities like NCOC.
	•	To alert users if someone tested positive in their contact list.
	•	Share info of contacted persons with the health authorities.
